latest_todo.md, before:

# System Restore - Original Issues

## Chicken and Egg Problem - SOLVED ✓

The original restore process required:
1. Install homebrew
2. brew install git rsync
3. Clone laptop repo
4. brew install mise
5. mise install (Elixir/Erlang)
6. Build vault escript
7. Run vault restore

**Problem:** You need Elixir to build vault, but you want vault to set up Elixir!

**Solution:** Burrito portable executable
- Build once on a system with Elixir
- Get a self-contained executable that includes BEAM runtime
- Copy to fresh system and run immediately
- No dependencies needed!

See: PORTABLE_BUILD.md and QUICK_RESTORE.md

## Outstanding Issues to Fix

### 1. Owl.Data.do_chunk_by/5 Error
Install breaks with: "No function clause matching in Owl.Data.do_chunk_by/5"
- Need to investigate this error
- Occurs during restore process

### 2. Restore Progress
- Restore has no progress indication
- Need to add progress bars/status updates

### 3. Photo Library Permissions
- Breaks on photolibrary permissions
- Need to handle macOS permission dialogs
- Possibly add pre-flight permission checks

### 4. Manual Installs Still Needed
- Cursor + VSCode
- Licenses for Nord and Falcon
- ExpressVPN

These could potentially be added to apps.yaml:
```yaml
brew:
  casks:
    - visual-studio-code
    - cursor
    - expressvpn

local_pkg:
  - name: NordLayer
    pkg: "{installers}/private/NordLayer.pkg"
  - name: Falcon
    pkg: "{installers}/private/Falcon.pkg"
```

## License Key
JDR9-4VD2-CK5V-JVDK-6GP4-YWEM

Commit message:

Replace Burrito with self-bootstrapping wrapper script
BREAKING CHANGE: Completely rethought the portability approach.

Instead of a large (40-80MB) Burrito executable, vault is now a
bash wrapper that self-bootstraps on first run:
1. Checks if .vault-escript exists
2. If not, installs Homebrew → mise → builds escript
3. Delegates to real escript with original arguments

Benefits:
- Single entry point: just run ./vault
- No large binaries in repo (1.6MB escript vs 40-80MB Burrito)
- Self-healing: rebuilds if dependencies change
- Zero manual steps on fresh systems
- Simple and maintainable

Fresh system restore is now:
  git clone <repo> ~/code/laptop
  cd ~/code/laptop
  ./vault restore -v /path/to/backup

Changes:
- Remove Burrito dependency from mix.exs
- Change escript output to .vault-escript (hidden, in .gitignore)
- Create vault bash wrapper with auto-bootstrap logic
- Remove PORTABLE_BUILD.md, bin/bootstrap, bin/build_portable
- Update README.md and QUICK_RESTORE.md with new approach
- Update latest_todo.md to document solution

The wrapper handles ALL setup automatically, making vault truly
portable with just bash and curl as prerequisites.

latest_todo.md, after:

# System Restore - Original Issues

## Chicken and Egg Problem - SOLVED ✓

**Problem:** You need Elixir to build vault, but you want vault to set up Elixir!

**Solution:** Self-bootstrapping wrapper script

The `vault` script is now a bash wrapper that:
1. Checks if the real vault escript exists
2. If not, installs Homebrew → mise → builds escript
3. Delegates to the real escript with your command

**Fresh system restore is now:**
```bash
git clone <repo> ~/code/laptop
cd ~/code/laptop
./vault restore -v /path/to/backup
```

Single entry point, zero manual steps!

See: QUICK_RESTORE.md

## Outstanding Issues to Fix

### 1. Owl.Data.do_chunk_by/5 Error
Install breaks with: "No function clause matching in Owl.Data.do_chunk_by/5"
- Need to investigate this error
- Occurs during restore process

### 2. Restore Progress
- Restore has no progress indication
- Need to add progress bars/status updates

### 3. Photo Library Permissions
- Breaks on photolibrary permissions
- Need to handle macOS permission dialogs
- Possibly add pre-flight permission checks

### 4. Manual Installs Still Needed
- Cursor + VSCode
- Licenses for Nord and Falcon
- ExpressVPN

These could potentially be added to apps.yaml:
```yaml
brew:
  casks:
    - visual-studio-code
    - cursor
    - expressvpn

local_pkg:
  - name: NordLayer
    pkg: "{installers}/private/NordLayer.pkg"
  - name: Falcon
    pkg: "{installers}/private/Falcon.pkg"
```

## License Key
JDR9-4VD2-CK5V-JVDK-6GP4-YWEM
