README.md, before:

# macOS Dotfiles

Personal macOS configuration and backup system.

## Vault Tool

Elixir-based CLI for backing up/restoring system configurations.

### Setup

```bash
# Install Elixir/Erlang via mise
mise use elixir@latest erlang@latest

# Build vault tool
mise exec -- mix deps.get
mise exec -- mix escript.build
```

### Commands

```bash
# Backup system configs to repo + vault data
./bin/vault save
./bin/vault save --vault-path /Volumes/Backup/VaultBackup

# Restore configs only (from this repo)
./bin/vault restore

# Restore everything (configs + vault data)
./bin/vault restore --vault-path ~/VaultBackup

# Install applications from config/apps.yaml
./bin/vault install

# Check backup status
./bin/vault status
./bin/vault status --vault-path ~/VaultBackup
```

## Dotfiles Location

All dotfiles are stored in the `dotfiles/` directory and copied to `$HOME`:

- `.zshrc`, `.zshenv`, `.zprofile`
- `.gitconfig`
- `.bashrc`, `.bash_profile`
- `.irbrc`, `.aprc`
- Additional configs in `config/` (mise, git, uv, yarn)

## Neovim Config

Neovim configuration is maintained in a separate repository:

[github.com/ericmhalvorsen/nvim](https://github.com/ericmhalvorsen/nvim)

Commit message:

Add portable Burrito executable build system
Solves the chicken-and-egg problem for fresh system restores:
- Previously needed Elixir/Mix to build Vault
- Now can use pre-built portable executable with bundled BEAM runtime
- No dependencies required on fresh systems

Changes:
- Add Burrito dependency and release configuration to mix.exs
- Create bin/build_portable script to build portable executables
- Create bin/bootstrap script for fresh system setup
- Add comprehensive documentation (PORTABLE_BUILD.md, QUICK_RESTORE.md)
- Update README.md to highlight portable executable option
- Update apps.yaml to include git, rsync, and expressvpn
- Document remaining restore issues in latest_todo.md

The portable executable can be copied to a fresh macOS system and run
immediately without any setup, making it perfect as a "springboard"
for automated system configuration.

Related to documented restore issues in latest_todo.md

README.md, after:

# macOS Dotfiles

Personal macOS configuration and backup system.

## Vault Tool

Elixir-based CLI for backing up/restoring system configurations.

### Quick Start: Fresh System Restore

**For restoring a fresh macOS system**, use the portable executable:

📖 **[QUICK_RESTORE.md](QUICK_RESTORE.md)** - Fast guide for fresh system setup
📚 **[PORTABLE_BUILD.md](PORTABLE_BUILD.md)** - Complete portable build documentation

The portable executable includes the BEAM runtime and requires no dependencies!

### Development Setup

```bash
# Install Elixir/Erlang via mise
mise use elixir@latest erlang@latest

# Build vault tool
mise exec -- mix deps.get
mise exec -- mix escript.build

# Or build portable executable
./bin/build_portable
```

### Commands

```bash
# Backup system configs to repo + vault data
./bin/vault save
./bin/vault save --vault-path /Volumes/Backup/VaultBackup

# Restore configs only (from this repo)
./bin/vault restore

# Restore everything (configs + vault data)
./bin/vault restore --vault-path ~/VaultBackup

# Install applications from config/apps.yaml
./bin/vault install

# Check backup status
./bin/vault status
./bin/vault status --vault-path ~/VaultBackup
```

## Dotfiles Location

All dotfiles are stored in the `dotfiles/` directory and copied to `$HOME`:

- `.zshrc`, `.zshenv`, `.zprofile`
- `.gitconfig`
- `.bashrc`, `.bash_profile`
- `.irbrc`, `.aprc`
- Additional configs in `config/` (mise, git, uv, yarn)

## Neovim Config

Neovim configuration is maintained in a separate repository:

[github.com/ericmhalvorsen/nvim](https://github.com/ericmhalvorsen/nvim)
